The stunning rise of Apple,whose late boss,Steve Jobs,make a fetish of design, has no doubt influenced Google's thinking since then.
The shift towards mobile computing has also forced it to take design more seriously.
There is an emotional reaction with a personalized mobile device that you do not get with a mouse and a keyboard.
explains Jon Wiley, a search designer who is part of an initiative to revamp Google's desing philosophy 
that was luanched by Larry Page when he became chief executive in 2011.
翻译的时候：从后往前翻译，从最早发生的开始
苹果的惊世崛起无疑影响了谷歌的决策。苹果过世的老板史蒂夫-乔布斯就对设计推崇备至。计算机移动化的发展趋势也迫使谷歌对设计更为重视
个性化移动设备可以让人产生情绪反应，这一点是带有鼠标和键盘的电脑设备所不具备的
搜索设计师乔恩 威力如是说。 2011年拉里佩奇就任谷歌行政总裁后 启动了一项旨在调整谷歌设计理念的项目，威力是该项目组的成员

汉译英------ 
英译汉-----
For any outsiders still doubting the reality of reform in Myanmar-- for decades one of the regions' most isolated nations--Aung San Suu Kyi's
flight this week from Yangon to Bangkok in neighbouring Thailand should be seen as historic sign that significant change is indeed underway.
从句 一般先行翻译
由远及近的原则
几十年来，缅甸一直是亚太地区最孤立的国家之一。但昂山素季本周 将从仰光飞往泰国曼谷访问，对于质疑缅甸改革诚意的人来说，
此行历史意义重大，反映该国确实正在推行大规模变革

It is a brief flight---a little over an hour--yet by taking it, the once-repressed icon of Myanmese freedom will travel light years 
from her former days under house arrest in her rambling mansion, cut off from her two sons and her husband, not to mention the outside world.

昂山素季是缅甸民主运动代表人物，一度饱受压迫，被软禁家中，无法与两个儿子和丈夫见面，与外界更是完全隔绝。
她前往曼谷的航程只要一个多小时，但却象征了缅甸巨大的进步。

21， 四字句，6字句，8字句构成同意重复，如 口若悬河，剑拔弩张之势，箭在弦上 不得不发

with her hair perfectly coiffed------形容头发整理的一丝不乱
a choker sitting around her neck   贴颈项链
a plunging black dress that flatters her slim figure  低胸礼服勾勒出苗条身段
plunging   低领的  低胸的    
flatter  使显得更漂亮   使胜过本人
trademark look   标志性的容貌
official picture   官方片场照

Cambridge attracts the best students and academics 
because they find the University and the colleges stimulating and enjoyable places in which to live and work.
The students are thrown in with similarly able minds,learning as much from each other as from their teachers;
the good senior academics know better than to be too hierarchical or to cut themseleves off from intellectual criticism and debate.
剑桥之所以能吸引最优秀的学生和师资，在于其催人奋进的良好氛围以及愉快惬意的工作、生活环境。
能进入剑桥的学生个个思维敏捷，在这里，除了老师传道授业解惑外，学生们也相互比学赶帮；
剑桥的老师为人师表，毫无架子，勇于接受学术批评，乐于展开学术辩论

Imagine you have two candidates for a job. Their CVs are equally good, and they both give good interview.
You can not help noticing, though, that one is pug-ugly and the other is handsome. Are you swayed by their appearance?
禁不住将注意力转向两人外形：一个其貌不扬，一个英俊潇洒，那你会以貌取人么？

Offshore supply vessels resembling large,floating flat-backed trucks fill Victor Dock, unable to find charters in a sign of the downturn 
in Britain's oil industry. With UK North Sea oil and gas production 44 percent below its peak, self-styled oil capital of Europe Aberdeen 
fears the slowdown is not simply cyclical.
维多利亚港到处停泊着近海补给船，这些酷似巨型卡车的平底庞然大物漂浮在水上等待出租，却无人问津，
从侧面反映了英国石油产业已然陷入衰退。阿伯丁自称 欧洲石油之都，现如今北海油气产量相比峰值下降了44%，不由令人担心此番下滑绝非周期性衰退那么简单
self-styled    自封的；自诩的 

For a decade, metallurgists studying the hulk of the Titanic have argued that the storied ocean liner 
went down quickly after hitting an iceberg because the ship's builder used substandard rivets that popped their heads
and let tons of icy seawater rush in. More than 1500 people died.
storied    广为流传的；有名的；众所周知的
ocean liner   海上邮轮
过去十年一直研究泰坦尼克船体的冶金学家认为，当年这艘远洋邮轮的造船商使用了劣质铆钉，在船体撞上冰山后铆钉头开始崩脱，致使钢板开裂，
冰冷刺骨的海水大量倒灌入船体游轮迅速沉没

Now a team of scientists has moved into deeper waters, uncovering evidence in the builder's own archives of a deadly mix of great ambition and use
of low-quality iron that doomed the ship,which sank 96 years agon Tuesday.
一组科学家进行了深度调查研究，他们从造船厂的档案记录中发现了相关证据。
据档案记载，造船厂一方面要建造豪华巨轮，另一方面却使用劣质铁铆钉，为海难埋下了祸根，最终导致

All are past and gone! For truly great men,look to this age alone. 俱往矣，数风流人物，还看今朝
The floorboards were creaking as I walked towards the mirror. 
creak 吱吱作响；吱吱嘎嘎地作响；吱吱响声 
I looked into my face reflecting in the glass,when suddenly- my eye winked. 瞬间；眨眼睛
You are scaring me!  吓到我了
make sense of the world  了解世界
folk tales  民间故事
parents have told and passed on to their children over many years, are still being told today
classic plotlines  情节主线
rags to riches plots ----麻雀变凤凰
defeating the monster plots----打败怪物
other plots such as comedies,adventures and tragedies
human fantasies and fears 
transcend the concerns of particular times and places
we are intensely moralistic--- most of the time, the bad guys have unhappy endings and the good guys have happy endings
注重道德  善有善报 恶有恶报
we know that in the real world it does not actually work like that,
so there is an element of wish-fulfillment that somehow satisfies our moral appetite
如愿以偿的成分  在某种程度上满足了我们的道德欲望
classic stories work because they tap into basic human emotions   触及了人类的基本情感
storyteller is rambling--talking in a confused way,going off the subject or not making sense
讲故事的人瞎扯---含糊不清，脱离主题 或者讲不清楚
they want the storyteller to get to the point--- start talking about the most important and relevant information
进入主题  
But to cut a long stroy short   长话短说
as the saying goes, there are two sides to every story
that's all we have time for today。   这就是今天的全部内容
deep-seated    根深蒂固的；强烈的；坚定的 由来已久的
pay a nominal charge   象征性付费

25 chapter
promise to do sth------ 有望做某事
rely on antibiotics     依赖抗生素
acne    (kni)    痤疮 粉刺     vaccine company             work in parnership with 
job losses  are close to surpassing 200,000
eliminate employees to reduce costs.             reduce staff
the reductions surpass the 1400 losses in 2010.
takeover   收购；接管；接收 
deter companies from takeovers or stock offerings    阻止了公司收购或发行股票
trade stocks and bonds   交易股票和债券

For some, the long-term strategy may be to scale up and sell to Amazon or cash out in a stock offering.
对于有些人来说，开公司的长期计划可能是把规模做大，然后卖给亚马逊或是上市套现。

You can't cash out for at least 12 months, and you forfeit the last three months of interest if you redeem in less than five years.
这种债券至少12个月不能变现，如果持有时间不到五年就进行赎回，还会丧失后三个月的利息。

be realized as tangible devices   商业化
commercialization      germinate  发芽    
infallible    永无过失的；一贯正确的；绝对可靠的；万无一失的
flip onto the back    翻转
put her back on her feet   扶起来   
年份的读法 
2008   two thousand and eight
1805   eighteen hundred and five     eighteen hundred o five
2010    twenty ten  
1900   ninteen hundred  

stay put 留在原处不动；留在原地
parcel   包裹
365 million parcels were deliverd and received from Feb 11 to 15, the first five days of the weeklong holiday, a year-on-year increase of 224 percent.
The number of trips dropped during the holidy due to the intensified measures to contain the recent cluster of COVID-19 cases and
the authorities encouraging people to stay put.
Of these trips,17 million were by rail, 54 milion by road,2 million by water and 3 million by aircraft.












