中译英练习：
方法： 先看英文，再看中文，然后再

在 涉及 网络安全的问题上，中国政府的 立场 是 明确，一贯的
The stance of the Chinese government on issues relating to cyber security is clear and consistent.

我们反对一切形式的网络攻击，反对在网络空间制造敌意和对立:
We are against all forms of cyber attacks and activities creating hostility or confrontation in the cyber space.

希望各方真正本着互尊互信的精神，切实加强在网络空间的对话与合作，妥善处理 网络安全问题
We hope that all parties can act upon/in the spirit of mutual respect and mutual trust,            act in the spirit of  本着...的精神
enhance dialogue and cooperation in the cyber space,
and properly deal with cyber security issues.

昨天，欧元区 财长 有关希腊债务问题的谈判未能达成协议，增加了希腊推出欧元区的风险
Talks among Eurozone finance ministers over the Greek debt issue ended without any agreement yesterday,
which increases the possibility that Greece may exit the Eurozone.

中方一向支持欧洲一体化进程，希望看到一个稳定、团结与繁荣的欧盟
The Chinese side supports the integration of Europe and welcomes a stable,united and prosperous EU.

希望希腊能客服眼前的困难，欧元区能够 妥善 应对 有关情况，欧洲一体化进程继续顺利推进
We hope that Greece can emerge from the current difficulties,
the Eurozone can properly handle the relevant situation
and the integration process in Europe can move steadily ahead.    move ahead====继续往前走

中国是今年2月份联合国安理会轮值主席国
China holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for February.

维护国际和平与安全:以史为鉴，重申对<联合国宪章》宗旨和原则的坚定承诺
the maintenance of international peace and security 
by reflecting on history,and reaffirming the commitment to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.

reflect on 回顾 回想  反省        
purposes and principles      宗旨和原则

旨在为各方提供一个 铭记历史，展望未来的平台
This debate will serve as a platform for all parties to memorize the history and look into the future.

推动构建 以合作共赢为核心的 新型国际关系，全面启动联合国成立70周年 纪念活动
advance the building of a new model of international relations with win-win cooperation at its core
and kick-start commemorative activities celebrating the 70th anniversary of the founding of the UN.    全面不用翻译
commemorative activities  纪念活动

我们主张 在中日四个政治文件基础上，本着“以史为鉴、面向未来”的精神，与日本发展 长期 健康 稳定的 关系
We maintain that we should develop endurable,sound and steady relations with Japan 
based on the four political documents between China and Japan 
following the spirit of taking history  as a mirror and facing up to the future.
following/in the spirit of   本着....的精神    
taking history  as a mirror   

这符合两国人民的根本利益，也有利于地区的和平稳定
This is in the fundamental interests of the two peoples and conducive to regional peace and stability.

look back at your own past    回顾过去
I prefer to look ahead,not back. 向前看 而非向后

not let last year's efforts go in vain   

learn a lesson from the fine
could lead to the epidemic endangering people's live all over again
the regulation demands wearing of masks,sanitizing the cars and keeping windows rolled down to maintain air flow
it is clear that some drivers are not obeying the rules.   the number of violations
It seems that many drivers have become complacent because China has for long managed to keep the epidemic under control

the car,being an enclosed space shared by driver and passenger,is also a key point where the virus can spread.

car-hailing   网约车
car-hailing apps have definitely made life convenient for many.
if you have a driving license and a car that meets standards,you can register as a part-time driver and make an additional income while passengers get a convenient ride
and the platform makes profit.

Declaring this at a news conference on Sunday.
fail to implement epidemic control and prevention measures

美方表示，美方就中国出台网络信息安全新规向中国高层表达了关切
The US side said that it has raised concerns at a senior level to China over China's new security rules on network information
raise concerns to sb at sth   就某方面向某方表达关切

据缅甸媒体报道，已有47名缅甸人在缅北冲突中丧生。你是否了解冲突的最新情况？中方是否担心冲入会波及中国？能否提供进入中国境内的缅甸编码的具体数字
According the Myanmar media,the conflict in northern Myanmar has already cost the lives of 47 Myanmar residents.
Do you have any update? 
Is China concerned that the conflict may spill over to China?
Can you give us the number of Myanmar residents who have crossed the border into China?

The city races to roll out a second round of nucleic acid testing.
asymptomatic   carriers   无症状携带者, with the majority of cases detected in rural areas.
in a previous testing drive, which concluded on Sat,354 people tested positive for COVID-1.

我们希望边境正常秩序能尽快恢复，使他们能早日重返家园
We hope that the normal order can be returned to the border at an early date
so that they can return to their homeland as soon as possible.

愿坚持平等相待、互利共赢，推动两国关系迈上新台阶
China is willing to elevate bilateral ties to a new level on the basis of equal treatment and mutal benefit.

中希关系前景广阔，合作成果惠及两国及地区人民
China-Greece relations enjoy a promising prospect and       enjoy的应用
bilateral cooperation delivers benefits to people in the two countries and the region.     惠及---deliver

使其为构建中欧陆海快线、粗剪亚欧互联互通发挥重要桥梁作用
the port will serve as an important bridge in building China-Europe land-sea express and enhancing interconnectivity between Asia and Europe

中国坚定不移走和平发展道路，奉行防御性国防政策
China is committed to the path of peaceful development and a national defense policy that is defensive in nature

became a hot spot for COVID-19 after Shi  and the nearby city of Xing began reporting locally transmitted infections.

中国国防力量的发展，既是维护自身国家统一、领土完整和发展利益的需要、也是维护国际和地区和平与安全的需要，不针对、不威胁任何国家
The development of China's national defense aims to safeguard national unity,territorial integrity and development interests.
It answers to the need of preserving world and regional peace and security,and targets and threatens no one.
针对  威胁  target  threaten  作为动词使用 

中国一贯注重控制国防费规模，坚持国防建设与经济协调发展方针，合理安排国防费
China is always mindful of controlling the size of its national defense spending, and properly sets the amount of national defense spending
by aligning national defense development with economic developtment.
一贯注重  be always mindful of sth
align A with B   使A与B相协调

中国每年的国防费预算 都 纳入 国家预算草案，由全国人大 审查批准，这一过程完全公开透明；中国军费总额及其基本构成等新型也都公开透明
The budget for national defense is included in the national draft budget every year for the deliberation and approval by the NPC.
The openness and transparency of this process is guaranteed. Information like the total amount and the basic components of China's
military spending is also open and transparent for all to see.
纳入   be included in 
the deliberation and approval    审查批准

我们希望有关方面能平和、客观、公正、理性地看待中国的发展，包括中国的国防建设
We hope relevant countries can view China's development,including its national defense development,
from a peaceful,objective,unbiased and reasonable perspective.
view sth from ....perspective  
unbiased  公正的

磋商内容包括美方帮助中方在美境内追逃追赃
Discuss how the US can go after suspected corrupt Chinese people in the US and their assets.                     
用动词discuss来切换成名词 磋商内容            
retrieve fugitives and their illicit proceeds   追逃追赃
go after 去追捕  跟踪

Whether or not China and the US are looking at signing a formal extradition treaty.    是否会正式签署引渡条约

在会议期间  就加强反腐败合作  达成了共识
President Xi Jinping and President Obama have also agreed on enhancing cooperation agains corruption during their meeting on the sidelines of APEC.
agree on sth
reach an agreement  达成一致  共识
on the sidelines of   相当于私下，不在正式会议上

推动APEC各经济体落实<北京反腐败宣言>,加强在腐败人员遣返、资产返还等领域的务实合作
encourage all APEC economies to follow through on the Beijing Declaration on Fighting Corruption,
enhance practical cooperation on the repatriation of corrupt officials,recovery and return of proceeds of corruption and other areas.
repatriation    遣返                  covert  秘密的；隐蔽的；暗中的
follow through on sth   落实sth 
proceeds  资产  收益 

中方愿与其他APEC各经济体 加强反腐败 和追逃追赃合作
The Chinese side is ready to step up cooperation with other APEC economies 
to fight against corruption and go after the corrupt and their ill-gotten assets

非法得到的；来路不正的    ill-gotten wealth/gains  不义之财

与会专家称，中国对老虎制品的需求增加 导致野生虎数量锐减，破坏 各方位保护野生虎所作努力
Some experts say that the soaring demand for tiger parts in China has caused a sharp decline in the tiger population,
and frustrated efforts by all parties to protect wild tigers.

全面禁猎并全面禁止虎骨贸易和虎骨入药
Poaching,trading of tiger bones and using them as medicine are fully banned.

通过政府和社会各界的努力，中国的野生虎栖息地已得到有效恢复和改善，野生虎种群已显现逐步扩大态势，
野生虎保护日益成为公众的 自觉行动
Thanks to the efforts made by the government and people from all walks of life,
the habitats for wild tigers in China have been effectively restored and improved,
the species and population of wild tigers have been gradually enlarged  
and wild tigers protection has become a self-conscious action of more and more Chinese people.
日益    引申为  more and more

我想强调，中国企业在高铁技术、装备、施工、运营等领域具有国际竞争力，正在走向世界
It is worth underlining that Chinese companies are gaining competitive edge in technology,equipment,building and operation of high-speed railway when going global.

counterweight   平衡  抵消
as a counterweight to a growing fleet of Chinese vessels

extend air patrols into the South China Sea   把范围扩大到  extend into

地区盟友和伙伴越来越将日本是做 维护地区稳定的重要因素    具有意义
allies,partners and friends in the region will look to the Japanese more and more as a stabilizing function,
and that operations by Japan Martime Self Defense Forces in the South China Sea make sense in the future.

域外国家应尊重本地区国家维护和平稳定的努力，不做挑拨他国关系、制造紧张局势的事
Countries outside the region should respect the endeavor of countries in the region to safeguard peace and stability,
and refrain from sowing discord among countries and creating tensions.
refrain 克制 节制  避免   refrain from doing sth
sow discord       挑拨；散播不和
  
坚持推进六方会谈，通过对方协商解决半岛核问题，符合有关各方共同利益，也需要各方做出积极努力并承担应有责任
It serves the common interests of all parties 
and calls for the dedication and sense of responsibility of all parties to forge ahead with the Six-Party Talks
and properly resolve the Korean nuclear issue through dialogue and sonsulation. 
calls for   号召 需要       努力---dedication             forge ahead with  坚持推进
符合有关各方共同利益  It serves the common interests of sb

同意努力推动 全面、有效落实 南海各方行为宣言，积极争取 早日达成  南海行为准则
reaffirm their commitment to a full and effective implementation of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea
and an early conclusion of the code of conduct in the South China Sea

同意努力推动  reaffirm their commitment to sth 
a full and effective implementation       全面、有效落实

在各方共同努力下，准则磋商 已经取得积极进展， 各方同意 在协商一致的基础上 早日达成准则，并就早期收获 达成重要共识
Thanks to the concerted efforts of all parties,
the COC consulation has made headway,   已经取得积极进展
with all parties consenting to an early conclusion of the COC based on consensus     协商一致
and arriving at an important agreement on the early harvest.   早期收获

consent to sth   同意

另有个别报道成，由于中国的发展需要非洲的矿产和资源，中方在非洲的有关建设被认为是 混凝土外交
Reports say that China is conducting "concrete diplomacy" in Africa 
in pursuit of Africa's mineral wealth to meet the needs of its development.

这是中方贯彻习近平主席提出的  筑巢引凤 和 授人以渔 对非合作理念
President Xi Jinping when putting forward the vision of cooperation with Africa said 
that the phoenix will come if the nests is built 
ant that teaching one to fish is better than giving him a fish.

put forward the vision of 提出......的理念

要想富  先修路   这是中国三十多年改革开放和实现经济快速发展的一条重要经验，也是非洲发展的必然要求
Wealth is not far away if roads are built.   要想富  先修路 
This is what we have learned and what we have been practicing  over the past 30-odd years of reform and opening up and rapid economic growth.
This is also a prerequisite for Africa's development.    必由之路  前提条件
30-odd years    三十多年

让世人从70年前的那场 空前浩劫中 汲取深刻历史教训，避免历史 悲剧重演
enable people to draw historical lessons from the unheard-of calamity 70 years ago so that the tragedy will not repeat itself.
draw historical lessons from  汲取深刻历史教训
the unheard-of calamity    空前浩劫   从来没听过的  
prevent a repeat of sth






