我相信，所有在海边长大的人都和我一样，对大海有着很强的崇敬感和亲近感。
大海是我们共同的家园，是我们的精神纽带
I think for those of us who have grown up near the coast, we all share an emotional bond with the sea
and deeply admire its greatness.     崇敬感
As our common home, the blue waters unites us altogether.         是----as
精神纽带   unites us altogether

提出一带一路倡议    the Belt and Road initiativa
已经取得丰硕成果    deliver  fruitful results
取得实质进展        make substantive progress in          substantive 实质性的 

这些成果的取得更缘于 沿线国家和人民的关心、认同和参与
these achievements wouldn't have been possible without the support and participation of the governments and people of our parterns.

众人拾柴火焰高
when many people help add the firewood, the flame would rise higher.

任何一项伟大的事业，都需要朋友、需要伙伴，需要大家心往一处想，劲往一处使
Great things can happen when friends and partners combine efforts towards the same goal.

为什么要将两者合在一起，一带和一路哪个更重要、更优先
why we put the two together and which one ranks higher in our priority: the Belt of the Road.

骆驼和帆船都是亚欧大陆及附近海洋商贸和文化交往的象征，陆、海丝绸之路是互补并行的关系
camels and sailing boats have epitomized the trade and cultural exchanges across the Eurasia  continent
and beyond into the vast oceans.

成为…的典范（或典型） epitomize   i i ai

一带一路一同链接亚太经济圈，一头连接欧洲经济圈，南亚和西亚是一带和一路的交汇之地
因此陆上于海上合作必须兼顾
Situated on the crossroads of the Asia Pacific and the European economies,
it is essential that countries in the South and West Asia grow land and maritime cooperation in sync.
in sync   同步  齐头并进 

一带一路的沿线国家，不管是 沿海国家还是内陆国家，都在 加强互联互通和发展国际贸易，
都有参与国际海洋合作的权利，都应该是一带和一路的平等建设者和共同受益者
We believe that all partners along the routes of the Belt and Road, whether coastal contries or landlocked ones,  沿海 内陆国家
could make unique contributions to promoting connectiviey and international trade,   互联互通
and as equal contributors to and beneficiaries of this initiative,    建设者   受益者
we should all enjoy the rights to participate in the international maritime cooperation.  海洋合作

要推进 21世纪海上丝绸之路建设，我主张有海纳百川的胸襟，有乘风破浪的勇气，在对接合作上下功夫
Going forward, I believe the success of the Maritime Silk Road of the 21st century would require effective efforts
to coordinate our cooperation. To make that happen, we must equip ourselves with an open mind as broad as that of an ocean
and muster courage strong enough to brave winds and waves.
muster    集合  鼓起 召集     
brave   作为动词使用：   勇敢面对；冒（风险）；经受（困难）
to coordinate our cooperation   对接合作

中国已经并将继续虚心听取沿线国家和人民的意见和建议
China wil continue, as we have always done, to earnestly heed the opinions and advice

坚持开放的区域主义，不高封闭性集团，不针对第三方
We will remian committed to open regionalism, 
and will refrain from closed blocs and arrangements targeted at the third party.
bloc   （政治利益一致的）国家集团
refrain from   避免  控制 节制                     heed   留心；听从；留意

欢迎国际组织、跨国公司、金融机构和非政府组织各尽所能
We look forward to the valuable contribution from international organizations, multinational corporations, financial institutions, and non-governmental organizations
欢迎 look forward to 

就是把握国际金融危机之后的调整期，顺应全球海洋经济 蓬勃发展的 潮流，建设海上合作支点与海上经济合作走廊
As we navigate through the adjustment after the international financial crisis,
we must seize the opportunities of rapidly growing global ocean economy,
and establish pivots and corridors for maritime economic cooperations.    
As we navigate through  在我们经历......的时候

先做能做的事 容易做的事   can be easily done
proceed on initiatives that are within our capabilities and of easier external conditions.

以和平的方式妥善 处理矛盾和分歧，避免争议问题 影响合作大局
handle contradictions and differences in proper and peaceful ways, so as to avoid the disruptions of controversial issues in our cooperation.

有风浪不要紧，要紧是认清风向，借风行船。 有暗礁不要紧，要紧的是正确认识暗礁，有的暗礁可以涨潮时大胆地走，有的暗礁则要绕着走
in the face of winds and waves, what matters most is to find out the wind direction  so that we can sail with its strength.
In the face of sunken reeves,what matters most is to make right choices on each case: some reeves can be safely crossed during high tides,
yet some require a detour.

大国在海上争夺势力范围    turf fights among major powers          turf  地盘 势力范围
以更加自信，开放，从容的姿态推进海上合作
press ahead ocean cooperation with more confidence,openness, and trust.
press ahead with sth  推进；继续进行；奋勇前进   

中国倡导 21世纪海上丝绸之路，与中国  亲 诚  惠 容 的 周边外交理念 是一致的
The 21st Century Maritime Silk Road is a fine example of China's neighborhood foreign policy concept of "closeness,sincerity,shared prosperity, and inclusiveness"
neighborhood foreign policy concept    周边外交理念

中国没有什么所谓的谋求势力范围的地缘 战略意图
There is no hidden strategic agenda to use this initiative as a means to gain sphere of influence.

主张构建更全面 可持续 包容和互利的亚太海洋/海上合作新型伙伴关系
call for the establishment of new partnership for Asia-Pacific ocean cooperation 
that is more comprehensive, sustainable, inclusive, and mutually beneficial.

海上丝绸之路古已有之，2000多年前中国人，印度人，阿拉伯人就驾驶海船互通有无
The Maritime Silk Road has its historical legacy that can be traced back to more than two millennia ago
when the Chinese,Hindus, and Arabs exchanged goods through martitime sailing.
historical legacy   历史传统

宋元时期，泉州成为东方第一大港，千帆竞逐，梯航万国，与埃及的亚历山大港齐名
During the Song and Yuan period or Dynasties, Quanzhou had become the largest oriental port, on a par with Alexandria of Egpyt.
千帆竞逐，梯航万国   不用翻译
on a par with   与》。。。齐名

中国古代高僧玄奘到印度取经时
When the ancient Chinese monk Xuan Zang paid his pilgrimage to India for Buddhist scriptures.
pilgrimage  
n.朝圣之旅；参拜之行；瞻仰之旅
v.去参拜圣地
经文；手稿；圣典   scripture

增强亚洲人认知海洋，进取海洋，经营海洋，发展海上合作的自信心，继承和弘扬和平合作，开放包容，互学互鉴，互利共赢的精神
we must tap into our historical and cultural legacies, carry forward the spirit of peaceful cooperation,openness,inclusiveness,
mutual learning, and mutual benefit, 
and boost the confidence of the Asian people in pioneering martitime exploration,development, and cooperation.

国际经济合作走廊建设，离不开沿海港口。海上重点港口建设，也离不开陆上腹地和交通线
The development of port cities constitutes an integral part of multiple international economic cooperation corridors.
On the other hand, the hinterland development and its transportation networks are also essential in supporting and 
sustaining major port cities and areas.

constitutes an integral part of   构成了不可获取的一部分

建设通畅 安全高效的 陆海运输大通道，让沿海和内陆的人民实现共同富裕
facilitate the development of safe and efficient land-and-sea major transportation channels,
bringing forth common prosperity for both the coastal and inland population.

与21世纪海上丝绸之路倡议  不谋而合
fit perfectly well with the 21st Century Martime Silk Road
赢得热烈反响，老泪纵横但无怨无悔
been warmly received by the audience.
his tears came down,but there was not bitter regret.

对接最终要靠人来实现，要以人为本，靠人心相通
the most fundamental element for effective coordination is our people.
We should always put our peole first and find ways to deepen mutual understanding and friendship among our peoples.

海上丝绸之路不是横空出世，而是几代外交官和社会各界人士的 心愿和积淀
the Maritime Silk Road is not something newly coined out of nothing, but a legacy 
that carries the efforts and aspirations of several generations of diplomats and people from various sectors.
横空出世    something newly coined out of nothing
the efforts and aspirations   心愿和沉淀

今后（将来），海上丝绸之路要靠更多年轻人去亲身体验，投身到火热的建设事业中去
Moving ahead, we need more young people to experience,understand, and devote to the undertaking of the Maritime Silk Road.

海纳百川，有容乃大。壁立千仞，无欲则刚
The vastness of the ocean comes from its accepting of thousands of rivers,
the resilience of a high,steep cliff comes from its absence of desire.

我们决心 承前启后，继往开来，发扬互信，包容 合作 共赢的精神，共建 面向未来的亚太伙伴关系
We resolve to build  on past success to move ahead.
We agree to, in the spirit of mutual trust,inclusiveness,cooperation and mutual benefit,
shape the future through Asia-Pacific partnership.
承前启后，继往开来   build  on past success to move ahead
 
打造发展创新 增长联动  利益融合的开放型亚太经济格局，为实现共同发展，繁荣，进步的亚太梦想而不懈努力
build an open economy in the Asia-Pacific featuring innovative development, interconnected growth
and shared interest in a dedicated effort to fulfill the dream of an Asia-Pacific that delivers growth,
prosperity and progress to all.

共同规划 发展愿景，共同应对全球性挑战，共同打造合作平台，共同谋求联动发展
jointly shape future development, tackle global challenges, 
build cooperation platforms and pursue interconnected growth.
共同    jointly   

共同打造 开放 包容 均衡 普惠的 区域经济合作框架
work for a regional economic cooperation environment that is open, inclusive,balanced and beneficial for all.
a regional economic cooperation environment    区域经济合作框架

这一成果将把区域经济一体化水平提升到新的高度，也将使太平洋两岸的经济体广泛受益，为亚太经济增长和各成员共同发展注入新的活力
take regional economic integration to a new level, deliver gains to all economies on both sides of the Pacific 
and inject new impetus to the economic growth of the Asia-Pacific and common development of APEC members.
take sth to a new level   提升到新的高度       水平不需要翻译

抓住机遇 直面挑战，加快创新和改革步伐，为 亚太经济发展挖据新的驱动力和竞争力
seize the opportunity,meet challenges head on   直面挑战 迎头的
and speed up innovation and reform           为 ---------to or so as to 
to create new driving force for the growth of the Asia-Pacific economy and make it more competitive.

推进 务实合作，经验分享，能力建设，实现创新，改革，增长三者之间良性循环，进一步巩固 亚太的全球经济引擎地位
promote result-oriented cooperation, experience sharing and capacity building 
and allow innovation,reform and growth
to reinforce one another so as to further consolidate the Asia-Pacific's position as the engine of the global economy.

加强 交流互鉴，丰富亚太发展新理念新思路，形成多元发展，齐头并进的局面
step up exchanges and mutual learning, and identify new ways for the development of the Asia-Pacific 
so that members of this region will grow together by pursuing diversified development paths.

新型议题 进入我们的视野   Major new topics have been added to our agenda.            be added to 

启发了深入讨论，产生了重要成果
in-depth discussion on them have produced importance deliverables.

实现 加强 硬件、软件和人员交流互联互通的 远景目标
translate the vision of enhancing hardware,software and people-to-people connectivity into reality.

帮助本地区破解 互联互通建设资金 瓶颈
help our region remove bottlenecks in financing connectivity projects.

相逢总是美好而又短暂的：  Good times are always too short.

我希望这次中国之行 能给大家留下美好的回忆，也愿借此机会祝大家 旅途愉快，一路平安
I hope you have enjoyed your stay in China, and wish you all a pleasant and safe trip.

世界经济复苏仍面临诸多 不稳定不确定 因素         unpredictable and destabilizing
The world economic recovery still faces many unpredictable and destabilizing factors   (on a shaky ground)
instability    uncertainty  

亚太经合组织应该发挥引领和协调作用，打破种种桎梏，迎来亚太地区更大范围、更高水平、更深层次的新一轮大开放、大交流、大融合
APEC should play a leading and coordinating role in breaking various shackles 
and unleash a new round of greater openness,exchange and integration at a higher level, in more areas 
and involving deeper structural adjustment.
(embrace larger,higher and deeper access to opening up,exchanges and integration)
unleash  or  usher   释放 迎来

我们要创新发展理念，从传统的要素驱动、出口驱动 转变为创新驱动、改革驱动
We need to be innovative in development approaches,
pursue development through innovation 
and reform instead of driving it the usual way by relying on factors of production and export.

推动亚太地区在全球率先实现新技术革命
make the Asia-Pacific region a global leader in achieving new technological revolution

互联互通是一条脚下之路，乌鲁士公路、铁路 航路还是网络，路通到哪里，我们的合作就在哪里
Connectivity is about connecting physical structures.
Our cooperation should extend to wherever roads,railways,air routes and the Internet take us.

打通 融资贵、融资难的瓶颈，就是要 加强公私伙伴关系建设，实现 联动式发展
We should eliminate bottlenecks  in accessing affordable financing, strengthen the public-private partnerships,
and achieve interconnected development.

打造 发展创新、增长联动、利益融合的 开放性亚太经济格局，符合所有成员共同利益
It meests the common interests for us all to foster an open economy in the Asia-Pacific 
featuring innovative development, interconnected growth and converging/shared interests.
It meests the common interests for us all   符合所有成员共同利益

亚太经济体需要 共同构建 互信、包容 合作 共赢的亚太伙伴关系，为亚太地区和世界经济发展增添动力
all the economies in the region need to work together to build an Asia-Pacific partnership of 
mutual trust, inclusiveness,cooperation and win-win progress, and this will inject new energy into the economic development of
both the Asia-Pacific and the world.
inject new energy into  增添动力

共同规划发展愿景   jointly chart the course for future development

以信息共享增进彼此了解，以经验交流 分享最佳实践，以沟通协调 促进集体行动，以互帮互助深化区域合作
We should share information to understand each other better,
exchange experience to share best parctices,
facilitate collective actions through consulation and coordination, 
and boost regional cooperation through mutual assistance.

伙伴意味着一个好汉三个帮，一起做好事  做大事
Partnership means pitching in for common goals and big initiatives.
努力投入；投身于；作出贡献  pitch in 

亚太经合组织的发展壮大有赖于大家共同支持
A stronger and more dynamic APEC is possbile only with support from all its members

我们要加大对发展中成员的资金和技术支持，发挥亚太经济体 多样性突出的特点，优势互补，扩大联动效应，实现共同发展
We need to increase financial and technical support to developing members,
give full rein to the strength of diversity among the Asia-Pacific economies,
draw on each other's strength, better leverage the amplifying effects and achieve common development.

give full rein to 发挥 
draw on each other's strength  优势互补
leverage on each other's strength 优势互补








