全年 实现 社会消费品 零售总额26.2万亿元，同比增长12.0%，扣除价格因素，实际增长10.9%，比上年同期分别放缓1.1个和0.6个百分点
the retail sales of consumer goods in the whole 2014 reached 26.2 trillion yuan,
up 12.0% year on year, and 10.9% with price factors excluded,    (with price factors excluded  ===== in real terms, 实际增长)
1.1 and 0.6 percentage points slower than that of 2013 respectively;
(more than the previous year, a year earlier)

全年最终消费对GDP增长的贡献率达到51.2%，比上年提高3个百分点，成为拉动经济增长的主引擎
The final consumption of the whole year contributed 51.2% to GDP growth, 
3 percentage points higher than that of 2013,
becoming the main engine driving economic growth. (major economic driver)

限额以上单位（商业企业）；规模以上工业企业
units above the designated size; industrial enterprises above the designated size

2014年全国居民消费价格总水平上涨2%，比上年同期回落0.6个百分点
CPI in 2014 was up 2%, 0.6% percentage points slower than that of the same period of 2013.
PPI, PMI > 50% or < 50%

电视购物 专项整治
the special campaign to rectify TV shopping

建设肉菜、中药材 流通追溯体系
build the circulation traceability system of meat,vegetable and traditional Chinese medicinal materials.

第一 货物贸易大国地位 巩固
China's status as the largest goods trader was consolidated

民营企业成为 稳增长 的主力军
Private enterprises have become the main force of stabilizing growth.

实际使用外资金额 7363.7亿元人民币
with actually utilized FDI of 736.37 billion yuan; (paid-in foreign investment)

连续23年 保持发展中国家首位
take the lead among the developing countries for 23 consecutive years.
take the lead    保持首位

在外向型产业 转移 的带动下，中部地区 吸收外资 增长7.5%，实际使用外资金额占比升至9.1%
Driven by the relocation of export-oriented industries,
the inward/inbound foreign investment in central China increased by 7.5%
and the proportion of actually utilized FDI of central China in the national total 
rose to 9.1%.
the proportion of A in B  A在B中比例

累计实现 非金融类 对外直接投资 6320.5亿元人民币
with a combined non-financial investment of US $ 102.89 billion
(equivalent to 632.05 billion yuan;outboud direct investment) 对外直接投资  ODI

东风汽车有限公司以10.9亿美元收购法国标致雪铁龙集团14.1%股权
The Dongfeng Motor Company Limited acquired 14.1% equities of PSA Peugeot Citroen with US $1.09 billion.

我国对外承包工程业务 完成营业额 8748.2亿元人民币
the turnover of China's contracted projects overseas amounted to US$ 142.41 billion
(equivalent to 874.82 billion yuan)
amount    作为动词使用  等于 总计

2014年，我国经济发展 进入新常态，服务外包领域新技术、新业态、新应用模式不断涌现，
服务外包产业逐步 从规模快速扩张向 量质并举 转变
In 2014,China's economic development enterned into a new normal, new technology,new commercial activities
and new application models were constantly emerging and the service outsourcing industry changed from 
focusing on expanding scales to boosting quality and quantity simultaneously.

离岸信息技术外包（ITO）、知识流程外包(KPO)和业务流程外包(BPO)
offshore information technology outsourcing(ITO),
knowledge process outsourcing(KPO) and business process outsourcing(BPO)

双向投资、对外投资，想请您评价一下这样的状况、请您预估一下2015年对外投资的情况和吸收外资的情况
Two-way investment,  outbound/outward investment, what is your take on this;
Could you share with us your projections of outbound investment and FDI in 2015?
take    作为名词  立场 观点的意思 

全行业对外投资、如果算上第三地融资再投资、实际对外投资已经超过利用外资的规模，中国已经成为资本的净输出国
China's outbound investment in 2014 across the board stood at 100 billion yuan.
With reinvestment via third-party financing included,        with sth included 
China's ODI beat FDI in 2014
China has become a net exporter of capital.

Chinese companies are keen to invest with market impetus      对外投资的积极性 或者 市场动力

加上中国政府积极鼓励企业 走出去对外投资的 政策支持，因此中国对外投资增长的基本面是好的，
高速增长也是 在预期之内的
With the policy incentives of the Chinese government's going global initiative,    initiative====program
the fundamentals of Chinese ODI are sound.     基本面    fundamentals 
High speed growth has been anticipated.
policy incentives of  政策支持  鼓励 刺激 扶持

与吸引外资相比，我们估计今后几年对外投资的增速可能还是要更快一些。
当然我们也要 看到 中国的对外直接投资 起步比较晚，总体上还算是在起步阶段
As compared to FDI,we estimate that ODI will continue to grow faster in coming years.
That said,we need to recognize that China's ODI didn't take off until recently and is still in its early days.
(in its infancy, at the initial stage)      That said  转折  当然

下一步，我们将要
Moving forward or going forward, we will......

加强事前规划引导和公共服务，加强事后监管保障和风险应对
step up pre-event guidance and public service,
strengthen post-event regulation assurances and risk management.

同时也 将进一步推进 确立企业对外投资的 主体地位，更多释放 企业境外投资的 活力
In the meantime, we will further consolidate companies as major players in outbound investment
and unleash their vitality in outbound investment activities.

A is hyped as B   A 被大肆宣传为B   
hype  也可作为名词  促销广告
what is your take on that?

China's backward services sector is largely due to a liberalization deficit.    开放不足
Widen market access and further services liberalization.  推进服务业开放

Embrace/welcome investment

The Chinese government only adds an extra push, 只是加了一个推力
there are three forces at work    三力并举

吸引外资 由以往以制造业为主的格局 转变成 以服务业为主
China's FDI has shifted its focus from manufacturing to services.

但同时我们也发现，现在服务业领域确实面临着一些供给不足、竞争不充分、大门开，小门不开，
准入的门槛偏高等等亟待解决的问题
That said,we do observe urgent issues with services such as undersupply,competition deficit,
restricted access in practice despite macro-liberalization, and high market threshold.

从以往的经验看，适度扩大开放。引入市场竞争机制和 先进服务理念，将有利于 扩大服务的供给，激发国内服务业的发展活力
Judging from past experience, 
to moderately widen opening up               to do sth  can help do sth  
and introduce market competition and advanced service philosophy
can help boost the supply of services and stimulate the dynamic of domestic services.

在这方面，商务部去年按职责分工 已经做了大量工作
On this front,MOFCOM did lots of work in line with its remit last year.
职权范围；控制范围；影响范围    remit
in line with its remit    按职责分工

我们已经会同相关部门制定、修改了医疗、养老、电子商务等服务业领域的 准入规定
We worked with relevant departments to formulate and revise access regulations for, among others,
healthcare,elderly service/care and e-commerce. 
等       翻译为   among others

A and B jointly issue sth   A会同B共同出台了
关于开展设立外资独资医院试点工作的通知
Circular on Piloting the Establishment of Wholly Foreign-owned Hospitals

会同 民政部出台了  关于外商投资设立营利性养老机构有关事项的公告
in concert with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, MOFCOM released the Announcement on Issues Related to the Establishment
of For-profit Elderly Service Institutes by Foreign Investors.

along with sb 
concerning sth  关于什么的
expand the shareholding  
domestic express delivery market   国内快递市场
which has been implemented upon approval by the State Council  得到批复并实施

这是去年做的一系列有关推进服务业开放、服务业利用外资的工作，当然不止这些工作，还有其他一些工作
This is what we did to further liberalize and improve foreign investor's access to service sectors.
Of course, we did a number of other things in addition to this.
liberalize    开放 解放
in addition to this  ==== on top of this

要推进     有序开放
open up sectors like financial,education,cultural, and medical services in a well-planned way
in a well-planned way    有序的

要放开育幼养老、建筑设计、会计审计、商贸物流、电子商务等服务业领域的外资准入限制
lift restrictions on foreign investment in services such as child and old-age care, building design,
accounting, auditing,logistics and e-commerce.
lift restrictions on   对......放开准入限制

一方面我们要主动开放，另一方面，现在的开放涉及到多双边和区域合作，要有步骤、有计划、有节奏来开展工作
We will open up,on the one hand,in a proactive way;    主动 积极
and on the other,in a well-planned way in tune with the pace of China's multilateral,regional and bilateral trade negotiations.
in tune with the pace of  与......一致 和谐

It is essential to liberalize services in these zones

我们要选择金融服务以及医疗、教育等重点领域
We have selected financial services,medical services and education as the pilot areas     作为试点
等重点领域  ------ 不需要翻译  

并且及时总结试点经验，为下一步在全国更大范围内推进服务业扩大开放提供参考借鉴
The positive and negative experience drawn from these areas 
could provide signpost for services liberalization    参考借鉴 signpost 路标
in larger areas across the country.

继续推进服务业外商投资管理体制改革
we will continue to reform the foreign investment regime。     体制  regime

在维护国家安全的前提下进一步  减少服务业的审批事项，简化 审批程序
While ensuring national security,we will reduce items of review and approval 
and streamline the approval procedures in service sectors.
在......的前提下   while doing sth
reduce items of review and approval     减少审批事项
streamline the approval procedures    简化 审批程序

采取推动修改、补充外商投资 专项规定，或者发布 规范性文件 等方式具体加以推进
revise and amend the specific provisions in foreign investment regulations,
or issue normative documents to advance the work.
specific provisions     专项规定
normative documents   规范性文件








