A epitomize  B   ---- A是B的象征、代表 
epitomize a striking demographic trend    是人口结构趋势 显著变化的一个象征、代表

在步入传统界定的老年之后仍然继续工作
do sth well into the future  一直到今后还会做某事
go on working well into what was once though to be old age

大约65%仍然在岗 仍未退休
Some 65% are in the workforce

世界即将出现老龄人口数量的惊人增长，寿命也将不断延长
The world is on the cusp of a staggering rise in the number of old people,
and they will live longer than ever before

be on the cusp of      处在.....的前沿  即将

寿命延长意味着退休时间延长而非工作年限延长
greater longevity translated into more years in retirement rather than more years at work

老年抚养比      a sharp division between the working young and the idle old

但是，从社会的另一个层面来讲  形势不容乐观         
At the other end of the social scale,however, things look grim

进一步拉大差距     entrench the division still further

鼓励老年人多消费 少储蓄                  spend more and save less
encourage old people to spend their cash rather than salt it away

刚刚开始起步      a business in its infancy  

通常是由子女养老                    
Looking after the elderly usually falls to the offspring, if any.
落在.....的肩上   fall to sb

抚养比  The dependency ratio-----the number of people of non-working age,both young and old,as a proportion of those of working age.

一度促进经济发展的 人口红利 将很快开始消失
China's "demographic dividend"---the availability of lots of young workers----which helped fuel its growth will soon begin to desappear.

取消 计划生育政策很肯也无济于事
Revoking the ond-child policy would probably not make a big difference

制造企业  开始向劳动力充足、廉价的地区转移
Manufacturing is beginning to move inland to areas where labour is more plentiful and cheaper

老龄人口快速增加，劳动年龄人口不断减少，社会抚养比例越来越高
cope with a fast-rising population of retired people whose pensions,if any,will have to be paid for 
by contributions from a shrinking working population
pensions  ---- 养老金 

随着农村留守老人的出现
as young people move out and the elderly stay behind

由地方政府出头     leave it to local governments to put up the lion's share of funding
put up  花钱
 the lion's share   大头    最大[最好]的一份；绝大部分

Thus, at least in terms of investment, the state still controls the lion's share.
Asia accounts for up to 12% of global sales, and the 'lion's share' comes from China, he said.
他说，亚洲占全球总销量的比例达12%，其中最大的份额来自中国。

出现4-2-1的家庭结构
find themselves with four parents to look after and will themselves have only one child (known as the 4-2-1 phenomenon)

早该大幅提高/推迟退休年龄
A big increase in the retirement age is overdue

使大学生就业雪上加霜、难上加难
make it even harder for university graduates to find jobs

否定气候变化的人与反对发展转基因作物的人
Climate-change deniers and greens

环保人士据此提出转基因作物存在健康和安全风险
enable campaigners to make a health-and-safety argument against GM crops

需要将粮食单产提高一倍，提高用水效率，减少化学农药的使用
This will require doubling food production on roughly the same area of land,using less water and fewer chemicals.

转基因作物提高了产量，由此保护了野生动植物栖息地
GM crops boost yields,protecting wild habitat from the plough.

关于转基因技术的争论不断升级，令政府裹足不前
Debate over the technology is escalating,putting the government in a bind.

除了人们对于食品安全的担忧不断增加外，转基因技术争议也有较强的政治色彩           
alongside rising concerns about food safety,it has taken on a strongly political hue.
alongside 除....之外
有什么色彩   take on

有人认为美国利用 尚无安全定论的 转基因作物来削弱中国，网络上 到处充斥着 这种阴谋论
Conspiracy theories about supposed American plots to use dodgy GM food to weaken China abound online
dodgy   躲躲闪闪 含糊其辞的
plot to do sth  密谋做某事

将转基因作物视作在有限耕地上提高产量的解决知道
see GM crops as a way of boosting yields on scarce farmland   
see sth as a way of doing sth  

Treat them with kid gloves    谨慎处理、对待

有关转基因作物好处的宣传教育活动
a new public-education campaign on the merits of GM food

等尘埃落定后再开始推广种植转基因稻米品种
wait for the dust to settle  before it lets the paddy fields fill with the controversial strains
strain    指植物的品种      the paddy fields  稻田地

几个人对此不以为然或者自称并不知情
Several shrug at the idea,or profess ignorance
shrug at sth    对......不以为然                profess  宣称 自称

弊大于利
the risks of GM food outweighed the benefits
pluses vs. minuses
merits vs. demerits
upsides vs. downsides

随着超市开始出售自有品牌产品
as supermarkets lined shelves with cheaper own-brand products

lined shelves with  用什么摆满货架    意译为 开始出售

在人们对种植转基因作物 群情激愤的背景下建立
be set up on the back of the furore over GM
furore over  对....群情激愤  轰动

其他欧洲并没有像英国那样出现这种态度上的转变
The shifting attitudes in Britain are not being mirrored across Europe,however.



